Let's implement our two data structure the very first thing we're going to do is the nice and simple
peek which simply tells us what is the very first item in our queue.
So this got first is where we want to peek into if I run my cue dot peek I should get.
No because while there's absolutely nothing in our queue What about on cue or Anke.
I'm not sure how to pronounce that.
Let's go with you in there.
We want to add to our waitlist again similar to what we did with stacks.
We're going to create a new node and we're going to instantiate this new note with a value.
Remember we have the class here.
And this value's going to get added to a node that has this value and this dot next.
We then want to check and say hey if this DOD lenth is be called to zero.
That means there is nothing in our queue.
Then simply say this stuff first is going to equal the new node and same with this dot last because
there is only one node in our list.
This is very similar to what we implemented in the stack.
Otherwise
we can say that this cannot last dot next.
So that is whatever is at the very last of the line.
And whatever the next value is which initially whatever is last is pointing to no.
But we want to update that to say this time instead of Point No Point then you note as the last in line.
And we want to update this done last two now equal the new node so that whatever was last in line is
now pointing to the new node and the new node is now last which is going to make sure that this last
points to no Finally we can forget to increase the length by 1 and then we can just simply return this
our data structure.
So let's have a look.
We want to create this line.
Q So all we're going to do is say we want to on cue joy.
In fact like Ron first note I get joy with next.
And last node is again Joy with next no and length of one.
So far so good.
What if Matt comes and gets in line as well.
We Matt we now have first note that is joy and last node.
That is Matt.
And you can see here that the first note of joy is pointing to the next node that is not.
All right let's add a few more will add
Pawel who just got in line.
And then finally sumir a little bit late but he got in line as well.
If I click Run perfect our last note is sumir.
We have a lentil for and we have the join node which is the very first item in our queue Now let's say
we open the door and we start letting people in.
We want to dequeue this list and go from the very first first in first out all the way till the end
once again it's very similar to a stack except that we grab the node from the beginning instead of it.
And so we're first going to say if there's no this thof first if there's no first item we can also check
the Leontine if we want.
So the list is empty.
In that case just return no.
And by list I mean the queue if the queue is empty then return no.
We also want to check if this is the last node in our queue so we can do something similar with why
we didn't instax we can say if there start first equals this last again we can just check lenth years
well if we want but for now this would be fine if that's the case I want this dot last to equal Knol
remember make sure that now last points to all and regardless as soon as we dequeue we want to say this.
First equals this dot first dot next that is whoever is first now because we're going to remove joy
we want who is ever after joy that is mat to be in first priority now.
Then we simply say this lenth minus minus to decrease the length and we can return.
If I run this well it's the same thing because we haven't run it here.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's first of all run my cue dot peek to see who should be coming out of the queue and that is joy.
So if I do my Q Dot dequeue and I click run we see that now Matt is first in line.
Joy has been removed and lenth is of three and one thing to point out here.
Once we run dequeue here we've completely lost the joy node from our memory because we have no more
reference to it.
Nothing is pointing to that memory space and Javascript the way it works is going to garbage collect
and remove joy if we wanted to hold a pointer to joy.
Then we could say Konst holding
pointer and say this dot first so that before we update whoever's first we can reference it with this
variable so that we could potentially if we still want to use joy for example in a waiting list app
maybe we still want to do something to the user.
We can do this and still have access to the join node.
All right let's finish the skew.
Let's dequeue everybody from here if I do dequeue And let's return this back to this.
So we see what's happening.
If I run now Pavel is first in line and sumir is last in line.
If I click or if I had dequeue again and I click Run sumir is the last person on the list.
But then we can finally let him in as well.
There we go.
Now we have an empty cube and we've just implemented our own Q data structure well done.
Hope you had fun.
I'll see in the next video.
Babai.